1. Robot: perception, decision making and actuation
2. ROS master manager of al the nodes.
3. Parameter server acts as a central repository where nodes of a system can look up the parameter value and configuration values as needed.
4. Nodes pass messages to one another. Messages can carry any type of data.
5. A single node may simultaneously publish and subscribe to many topics.
6. Service is between nodes like topic but uses request-response.
7. Topic uses pub-sub architecture
8. rqt_graph helps to get compute graph.
9. loading ROS: https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/6047fe34-d93c-4f50-8336-b70ef10cb4b2/modules/e1a23b06-329a-4684-a717-ad476f0d8dff/lessons/7e3627d7-14f7-4a33-9dbf-75c98a6e411b/concepts/8c742938-8436-4d3d-9939-31e40284e7a6

#### Starting the Master process
Before any ROS nodes can be run, the Master process must be started.
The Master process is responsible for the following (and more)
    Providing naming and registration services to other running nodes
    Tracking all publishers and subscribers
    Aggregating log messages generated by the nodes
    Facilitating connections between nodes
To run the master process, you must execute the command `roscore`
#### Running Nodes
Now that the ROS master is running, we can run our  ROS nodes. To do so, we will execute the `rosrun` command in a new terminal window, passing as parameters the name of the package we wish to run, and the name of the actual node.
#### Listing all Active Nodes
To get a list of all nodes that are active and have been registered with the ROS Master, we can use the command `rosnode list`. 
#### Listing All Topics
In a similar fashion, we are able to query the ROS Master for a list of all topics. To do so, we use the command `rostopic` list.
#### Get Information About a Specific Topic
If we wish to get information about a specific topic, who is publishing to it, subscribed to it, or the type of message associated with it, we can use the command `rostopic info`.
#### Turtlesim Comms: Show Message Information
we will use the rosmsg info command.
#### Turtlesim Comms: Echo Messages on a Topic
Sometimes it may be useful to look at a topic’s published messages in real time. To do so, we can use the command `rostopic echo`. 

https://github.com/parthasen/autonomousCAR/blob/ROS/README.md

1. Need to create and initialize the workspace once. First, need to create the top level catkin workspace directory and a sub-directory named src (pronounced source). The top level directory’s name is arbitrary, but is often called catkin_ws (an abbreviation of catkin_workspace), so we will follow this convention. You can create these two directories with a single command:`$ mkdir -p ~/catkin_ws/src`
2. navigate to the src directory with the cd command:`$ cd ~/catkin_ws/src`
3. initialize the catkin workspace:`$ catkin_init_workspace`
4. Return to the top level directory,`$ cd ~/catkin_ws`
5.  build the workspace.`$ catkin_make`
***Note: you must issue this command from within the top level directory (i.e., within catkin_ws NOT catkin_ws/src)***
6. `$ ls` The aptly named build directory is the build space for C++ packages and, for the most part, you will not interact with it. The devel directory does contain something of interest, a file named setup.bash. This setup.bash script must be sourced before using the catkin workspace. 
7. `catkin_ws/src$ls` CMakeLists.txt is inside src
8. clone an existing package and add it to our newly created workspace.start by navigating to the src directory and cloning the  package for this lesson from its github repo.

        $ cd ~/catkin_ws/src
        $ git clone https://github.com/udacity/simple_arm_01.git simple_arm
 9. repo has finished cloning, you can change directory to the top-level of the ros workspace and build the new package.
 
        $ cd ~/catkin_ws
        $ catkin_make
 10. workspace has been built, you can source it’s setup script:`$ source devel/setup.bash`

 11. `roslaunch` allows to do the following: a. Launch ROS Master and multiple nodes with one simple command. b. Set default parameters on the parameter server c. Automatically re-spawn processes that have died 
 
         $ roslaunch simple_arm robot_spawn.launch
        
 11. The `rosdep` tool will check for a package's missing dependencies, download them, and install them.To check for missing dependencies in the simple_arm package:`$ rosdep check simple_arm`. To have rosdep install packages, invoke the following command from the root of the catkin workspace   `$ rosdep install -i simple_arm`. Issues with this command may arise when using a VM. If this is the case, please try:`sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-gazebo-ros-control`
 12. ***Own package:*** syntax for creating a catkin package is simply,`$ catkin_create_pkg <your_package_name> [dependency1 dependency2 …]`. Like `$ catkin_create_pkg first_package`.
 13. **making node***.`catkin_ws` is workspace.`simple_arm` is package. And now making node. The first node `simple_mover`. simple_mover does nothing more than publish joint angle commands to `simple_arm`.Second node `arm_mover`. `arm_mover` provides a service called safe_move, which allows the arm to be moved to any position within its workspace which has been deemed to be “safe”. The safe zone is bounded by minimum and maximum joint angles, and is configurable via the ROS’ parameter server. The last node is the `look_away node`. This node subscribes to a topic where camera data is being published. When the camera detects an image with uniform color, meaning it’s looking at the sky, the node will call the safe_move service to move the arm to a new position.
In order to create a new node in python, you must first create the scripts directory within the simple_arm package, as it does not yet exist.

    $ cd ~/catkin_ws/src/simple_arm/
    $ mkdir scripts
    $ cd scripts
    $ echo '#!/bin/bash' >> hello
    $ echo 'echo Hello World' >> hello 
    $ chmod u+x hello
    $ cd ~/catkin_ws
    $ catkin_make
    $ source devel/setup.bash
    $ rosrun simple_arm hello

or

    $ cd ~/catkin_ws/src/simple_arm/scripts/
    $ touch simple_mover
    $ chmod u+x simple_mover
    $ nano simple_mover
Add or write `simple_mover.py` 

15. ***Making Service***




       





